[EN] update GitOps (#2121)
cncf/glossary: content/en/gitops.md

---
title: GitOps
status: Completed
category: Concept
tags: ["methodology", "", ""]
---

> GitOps is a set of practices for managing software applications and infrastructure by continuously defining their desired states in a version control system such as Git.

Reviewer: I wonder if we need to say "continuously" here now, given we describe driving updates in the next paragraph.

Reviewer 2: From my perspective. Continuous is the hallmark of gitops and important to call out early. However the direction is wrong here. The states are defined, and then continuously reconciled to ensure actual state matches diesired state.

> GitOps is a set of practices for managing software applications and infrastructure by continuously defining their desired states in a version control system such as Git.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitOps is a set of practices for managing software applications and infrastructure by continuously evaluating and reconciling their desired states as defined in a version control system such as Git against their actual state. Reconciling states includes changing the resources to match the defined state via deployment or updates.
```

> In GitOps, the state or configuration of a system is fully described in files stored in version control.

Reviewer 2: Usually the state is stored in source control, but does not have to be. A Kubernetes Operator is gitops.

> In GitOps, the state or configuration of a system is fully described in files stored in version control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In GitOps, the state or configuration of a system is fully described in files stored in the source of thruth, usually the version control system. It could however be another source of truth such as a Kubernetes Operator or Artifact Storage.
```

> These files drive automated processes that align the live system with the defined state, ensuring consistency across applications, infrastructure, and operational tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The source of truth is evaluated by the automated processes that align the live system with the defined state. These processes adjusting the live system as needed ensuring consistency across applications, infrastructure, and operational tasks.
```

## Problem it addresses

Traditional approaches to managing infrastructure and application configurations can result in configuration drift, failed deployments, inconsistent environments, deployment failures, and difficulty tracking historical changes.

> These issues can cause instability and increase maintenance overhead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These issues can cause instability and increase maintenance overhead.
Configuration drift can be hard to detect and resolve without a source of truth governing it, increasing time to resolve outages or failures. 
```

## How it helps

> GitOps helps organizations manage the entire infrastructure, application development, and deployment lifecycle using a single and unified tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitOps helps organizations manage the entire infrastructure, application development, and deployment lifecycle using a single and unified process.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It may not be one tool.

---
title: GitOps
status: Completed
category: Concept
tags: ["methodology", "", ""]
---

> GitOps is a set of practices for managing software applications and infrastructure by continuously evaluating and reconciling their desired states as defined in a version control system such as Git against their actual state. Reconciling states includes changing the resources to match the defined state via deployment or updates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GitOps is a set of practices for managing software applications and infrastructure by continuously evaluating 
and reconciling their desired states as defined in a version control system such as Git against their actual state. 
Reconciling states includes changing the resources to match the defined state via deployment or updates.
```

> In GitOps, the state or configuration of a system is fully described in files stored in the source of truth, usually the version control system. It could, however, be another source of truth, such as a Kubernetes Operator or Artifact Storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In GitOps, the state or configuration of a system is fully described in files stored in the source of truth, usually the version control system. 
It could, however, be another source of truth, such as a Kubernetes Operator or Artifact Storage.
```

> The source of truth is evaluated by the automated processes that align the live system with the defined state. These processes adjust the live system as needed, ensuring consistency across applications, infrastructure, and operational tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The source of truth is evaluated by the automated processes that align the live system with the defined state. 
These processes adjust the live system as needed, ensuring consistency across applications, infrastructure, and operational tasks.
```

## Problem it addresses

Traditional approaches to managing infrastructure and application configurations can result in configuration drift, failed deployments, inconsistent environments, deployment failures, and difficulty tracking historical changes.
These issues can cause instability and increase maintenance overhead.
Configuration drift can be hard to detect and resolve without a source of truth governing it, increasing the time to resolve outages or failures. 

## How it helps

GitOps helps organizations manage the entire infrastructure, application development, and deployment lifecycle using a single and unified process.

> GitOps brings organizations several other advantages, such as transparency and traceability of changes, reliability and security through declarative states, and rollback, revert, and self-healing attributes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GitOps brings organizations several other advantages, such as transparency and traceability of changes, reliability 
and security through declarative states, and rollback, revert, and self-healing attributes.
```

---
title: GitOps
status: Completed
category: Concept
tags: ["methodology", "", ""]
---

GitOps is a set of best practices for managing software systems  

> from the beginning of the development workflow, all the way to deployment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
from the beginning of the development workflow, all the way to deployment.
```

Reviewer 2: I would change this to say "In a continuous manner" as the hallmark of GitOps is it's continuous.

> based on [shared (OpenGitOps) principles](https://opengitops.dev/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this as we try not to have any definitions from somewhere else.

> GitOps is a set of best practices for managing software systems  
> from the beginning of the development workflow, all the way to deployment
> based on [shared (OpenGitOps) principles](https://opengitops.dev/).
> 
> GitOps requires the desired state or configuration of the system to 
> be stored in a source control system like Git.
> These practices are then used to execute a cohesive workflow that 
> leverages a source control system like Git as the “single source of truth” and 
> extends this practice to applications, infrastructure, and operational procedures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitOps is a set of best practices for managing software systems from development
to deployment based on [shared OpenGitOps principles](https://opengitops.dev/).
It requires the desired state or configuration of the system to be stored in a source
control system like Git, serving as the single source of truth.
```

## Problem it addresses

Existing processes for configuration management can face 
challenges such as configuration drift, failed deployments, inconsistency 
across different infrastructure, or unknown development history.

> Emphasising on continues deployment and delivery, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Emphasizing on continuous reconciliation, 
```

> a GitOps workflow can help alleviate these issues, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a GitOps workflow can help alleviate these issues.
```

> 
> ## Problem it addresses
> 
> Existing processes for configuration management can face 
> challenges such as configuration drift, failed deployments, inconsistency 
> across different infrastructure, or unknown development history.
> Emphasising on continues deployment and delivery, 
> a GitOps workflow can help alleviate these issues, 
> among several others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing processes for configuration management can face challenges such as
configuration drift, failed deployments, inconsistency across different infrastructure,
and unknown development history. By emphasizing continuous deployment and
delivery, GitOps helps alleviate these issues.
```

Reviewer 3: Approved but I cannot signoff and commit through the webui, it says it cannot apply suggestions on deleted lines ^^

> among several others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## How it helps

> 

Reviewer 3: I don't know why this did not work. The original suggestion from Nate was to replace the whole paragraph with the following content: 

GitOps helps organizations manage the entire infrastructure and application
lifecycle using a unified tool. It brings advantages such as transparency and
traceability of changes, reliability and security through declarative states, and
rollback, revert, and self-healing attributes.

> GitOps is a paradigm that can be applied to a workflow 
> to help manage an application and cloud system infrastructure. 
> Moreover, it helps organizations to manage the entire infrastructure 
> and application development and deployment lifecycle using a 
> single and unified tool.
> 
> GitOps brings organizations several other advantages 
> such as transparency and traceability of changes, 
> reliability and security through declarative states,
> and rollback, revert and self-healing attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitOps helps organizations manage the entire infrastructure and application
lifecycle using a unified tool. It brings advantages such as transparency and
traceability of changes, reliability and security through declarative states, and
rollback, revert, and self-healing attributes.
```

Reviewer 3: Approved but I cannot signoff and commit through the webui, it says it cannot apply suggestions on deleted lines ^^
